### Class 01 Reading

#### Javascript basics

- HTML parsing is done when the browser reads the HTML code line by line and construcs a structure called the document object model (DOM). The DOM is tyhe structure and content of webpages and includes things like links, images and headings.

- CSS parsing is done when the HTML is parsed. The browser reads ther CSS code and applies the styles to the elements in the DOM. CSS parsing determines how the web page is going to look and includes colours, fonts and layout.

- JS parsing is done after CSS parsing. The browsers reads the javascript code and executes and functions and scripts. This includes actions such as animations, validations and user interactions.

- To find an image to add to your website, you can look on google images and once you find a suitable image that isnt copyrighted, you can right click it and copy the web address and paste the url into your code. 

- To create a string you must enclose a value in single or double quote marks.
let myVariable = "Bob";
- To create a number you dont add quote marks around them.
let myvariable = 10;
- A variable is a container that stores value. You can start by declaring a variable with the 'let' keyword.

#### Introduction to HTML

- A HTML attribute is a special instruction or property that is added to an HTML element to provide additional information or functionality. It helps define the behavior, appearance, or characteristics of the element. Attributes are typically written as name-value pairs within the opening tag of an HTML element, using the syntax name="value".

- A HTML element consists of a start tag, content, and an end tag. The start tag begins with a "<", followed by the element name, optional attributes, and ends with a ">". The content is the information or nested elements contained within the start and end tags.

- An <article> is used for standalone content, while a <section> is used for grouping related content together.

- A typical website usually includes: A header, nav, main, article, section, footer, aside, div, h1, img and paragraphs.

- Metadata plays a crucial role in Search Engine Optimization (SEO) by providing information to search engines about the content and relevance of a webpage. This can be infomation such as titles, meta descriptions, and keywords.

- the <meta> tag is used for page descriptions, character encoding, keywords and viewport config.

- The first step to deisgning a website is deciding on what you want to accomplish.

- You can add Javascript to a HTML document by adding in <script src="script.js"></script> in the head.