### Class 02 Reading

## Basics of HTML, CSS and JS

- It is important to use semantic elements in HTML as the provide structure to the code and make it easier to read and understand. 
- There are 6 levels of headings in HTML from h1 to h6.
- '<sup>' and '<sub>' are used in HTML to display superscript and subscript. sub could be used from equations and formulas while sub can be used for the same things but smaller and positioned below the sup.
- abbr is used to wrap around an abbreviation or acronym. When including either, provide a full expansion of the term in plain text on first use, along with the <abbr> to mark up the abbreviation. You must include the title attribute to give a full explanation of the abbreviation.


- You reference an external CSS stylesheet from an HTML <link> element:

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en-GB">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>My CSS experiment</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello World!</h1>
    <p>This is my first CSS example</p>
  </body>
</html>

- Inline style is the opposite of a best practice. First, it is the least efficient implementation of CSS for maintenance. One styling change might require multiple edits within a single web page. Second, inline CSS also mixes (CSS) presentational code with HTML and content, making everything more difficult to read and understand. Separating code and content makes maintenance easier for all who work on the website.


- h2 {
     color: black;
     padding: 5px;
   }

h2 is the selector.

colour: black,   padding: 5px are the properties. everything in the {} are properties.

Declarations are the individual statements that define the properties. such as color: blue



- String	This is a sequence of text known as a string. To signify that the value is a string, enclose it in single or double quote marks.	let myVariable = 'Bob'; or
let myVariable = "Bob";

- 4 types of javascript operators are 
Addition 
Strict equality
Assignment
Multiplication

- The alert() function makes a pop-up box appear inside the browser window, but we need to give it a string as an argument to tell the function what message to display.
- An if statement checks a condition and if it evaluates to true, then the code block will execute.
- Basic if...else syntax looks like this:

if (condition) { 
  /* code to run if condition is true */
} else {
  /* run some other code instead */
}
- A condition to test, placed inside the parentheses (typically "is this value bigger than this other value?", or "does this value exist?"). The condition makes use of the comparison operators we discussed in the last module and returns true or false.
- Three different comparison operators are:
=== and !== — test if one value is identical to, or not identical to, another.
< and > — test if one value is less than or greater than another.
<= and >= — test if one value is less than or equal to, or greater than or equal to, another.
- && — AND; allows you to chain together two or more expressions so that all of them have to individually evaluate to true for the whole expression to return true.
|| — OR; allows you to chain together two or more expressions so that one or more of them have to individually evaluate to true for the whole expression to return true.
