### Class 03 reading

## HTML Lists, Control Flow with JS, and the CSS Box Model

- The <ul> HTML element represents an unordered list of items, typically rendered as a bulleted list.

- To change the bullet style of unordered list items in HTML, you can use CSS to modify the list-style-type property.

- You should use an ordered list when you providing things like a top 10 list but you can use an unordered list for when your bullet pointing or just listing items.

- Sets the numbering type:

a for lowercase letters
A for uppercase letters
i for lowercase Roman numerals
I for uppercase Roman numerals
1 for numbers (default)



- If you think of the of the object as a fragile parcel then the padding is on the inside of the box givving the object padding from the outside of the box. The margin is like foam on the outside of the box adding more space to the outside and keeping the box safe.

- In an array you can store numbers, strings, booleans, objects and functions.

- The people array is valid and you can access the values using:
const name = people[0];

- Five assignment operators are:
Assignment	x = f()	
Addition assignment	x += f()	
Subtraction assignment	x -= f()	
Multiplication assignment	x *= f()	
Division assignment	x /= f()

- a is a number with a value of 10
- c is equal to false.
- a + c resils in 10false
- b is dog and it is concatinated with a + c so the result would be 10falsedog.

- A real world example could be:
Imagine a child being asked for help with a chore by their mother or father. The parent might say "Hey sweetheart! If you help me by going and doing the shopping, I'll give you some extra allowance so you can afford that toy you wanted." In JavaScript, we could represent this like so:

let shoppingDone = false;
let childsAllowance;

if (shoppingDone === true) {
  childsAllowance = 10;
} else {
  childsAllowance = 5;
}

- an example of a loop could be: 
for (let i = 0; i < 100; i++) 