### Class 04 reading

## HTML Links, JS Functions, and Intro to CSS Layout

- To create a basic link we wrap the text or content inside and anchor tag <a>.

- the href attribute contains the infomation that a hyperlink should point to. it shows the destination of a link such as a web page.

- Adding a title to your link can can provide additional infomation and can help with screen readers.

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Positioning

- Normal flow referes to the way that webpage elements lay themselves out if you havent changed their layout.

- Block level elements create a box level box that takes up the entire width in the container causing other elements to appear beneath it.
- inline elements take up only the necessary width and let other elements appear next to them.
- static positioning is the defult for every html element.

- An absolute position means an element sits in its own seperate layer.
This is very useful: it means that we can create isolated UI features that don't interfere with the layout of other elements on the page. For example, popup information boxes, control menus, rollover panels, UI features that can be dragged and dropped anywhere on the page.

- The main difference between fixed and absolute is that fixed usually fixes an element in place relative to the visable portion of the veiwpoint.

- A function declaration states what the funciton is and what its properties are while a function invocation is used to 'call' the function so that it can be used.

- Some functions require parameters to be specified when you are invoking them — these are values that need to be included inside the function parentheses, which it needs to do its job properly.

- An argument is the actual value or expression that is passed into a funciton.

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions#anonymous_functions_and_arrow_functions

- 2 benifits to pair programming are:
greater efficiency and social skills.