### class 06 reading

## Problem domain, objects and the DOM

- An object is a collection of related data and/or functionality. These usually consist of several variables and functions (which are called properties and methods when they are inside objects). Let's work through an example to understand what they look like.

- It is very common to create an object using an object literal when you want to transfer a series of structured, related data items in some manner, for example sending a request to the server to be put into a database. Sending a single object is much more efficient than sending several items individually.

- Objects usually refer to a single element whereas an array is able to hold multiple objects or elements.

- A way you can use bracket notation is like this:

person.age;
person.name.first;

You can instead use brackets:

person["age"];
person["name"]["first"];

- the term 'this' referes to the current object the code is being written inside. In this case 'this' referes to the age and the advantage to using this is that you can target the current object inside the zode.


const dog = {
  name: 'Spot',
  age: 2,
  color: 'white with black spots',
  humanAge: function (){
    console.log(`${this.name} is ${this.age*7} in human years`);
  }
}

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/Basics


- The Document Object Model (DOM) is a programming interface for web documents. It represents the page so that programs can change the document structure, style, and content. The DOM represents the document as nodes and objects; that way, programming languages can interact with the page.

- As an object-oriented representation of the web page, it can be modified with a scripting language such as JavaScript. The DOM is not a programming language, but without it, the JavaScript language wouldn't have any model or notion of web pages, HTML documents, SVG documents, and their component parts.