### class 07 reading

## Object-oriented programming, HTML tables

- Domain modeling is the process of creating a conceptual model in code for a specific problem. A model describes the various entities, their attributes and behaviors, as well as the constraints that govern the problem domain. An entity that stores data in properties and encapsulates behaviors in methods is commonly referred to as an object-oriented model.

A domain model that's articulated well can verify and validate the understanding of a specific problem among various stakeholders. As a communication tool, it defines a vocabulary that can be used within and between both technical and business teams.

- Layout tables reduce accessibility for visually impaired users: screen readers, used by blind people, interpret the tags that exist in an HTML page and read out the contents to the user. Because tables are not the right tool for layout, and the markup is more complex than with CSS layout techniques, the screen readers' output will be confusing to their users.

- 3 semantic elements you can use in a table are <tr> <td> and <th>.

- Constructors, by convention, start with a capital letter and are named for the type of object they create. So we could rewrite our example like this:


function Person(name) {
  this.name = name;
  this.introduceSelf = function () {
    console.log(`Hi! I'm ${this.name}.`);
  };
}

The advantage to using a constructor function is that you dont have to write out the same code for every object you create.








function Animal (name, energy) {
  let animal = Object.create(Animal.prototype)
  animal.name = name
  animal.energy = energy

  return animal
}

Animal.prototype.eat = function (amount) {
  console.log(`${this.name} is eating.`)
  this.energy += amount
}

Animal.prototype.sleep = function (length) {
  console.log(`${this.name} is sleeping.`)
  this.energy += length
}

Animal.prototype.play = function (length) {
  console.log(`${this.name} is playing.`)
  this.energy -= length
}

const leo = Animal('Leo', 7)
const snoop = Animal('Snoop', 10)

leo.eat(10)
snoop.play(5)



- A prototype is just a property that every function in JavaScript has and it allows you to share methods across all instances of a function. All our functionality is still the same but now instead of having to manage a separate object for all the methods, we can just use another object that comes built into the Animal function itself, Animal.prototype.